[general]
name=GeoPhoto Tri & Atlas
qgisMinimumVersion=3.16
description=Imports geotagged photos (EXIF GPS) or geolocates GPS-less photos by time correlation with a GPX track, creates the points on the map, sorts/copies the photos into folders named after polygon footprints, and generates a 2-page Atlas layout (map + photos).
description[fr]=Importe des photos géoréférencées (EXIF GPS) ou géolocalise des photos sans GPS par corrélation temporelle avec une trace GPX, crée les points sur la carte, trie/copie les photos dans des dossiers nommés selon les emprises polygonales, et génère une mise en page Atlas à 2 pages (carte + photos).
about=The plugin reads GPS coordinates from photo EXIF data, or geolocates photos taken with a GPS-less camera by correlating their capture time with a GPX track from a handheld GPS tracker (interpolating position along the track, with a clock-offset correction). It creates a point layer in EPSG:4326 (WGS84, the GPS's native reference system) with the file name as an attribute, performs a spatial join with a polygon layer (footprints), then copies or moves the photos into sub-folders named after the chosen field of each footprint. It also prepares an Atlas layout: page 1 = map centred on the footprint, page 2 = associated photos + photo table.
about[fr]=Le plugin lit les coordonnées GPS des photos (EXIF), ou géolocalise des photos prises avec un appareil sans GPS en corrélant leur date de prise de vue avec une trace GPX enregistrée par un traceur GPS de randonnée (interpolation de la position sur la trace, avec correction du décalage d'horloge). Il crée une couche de points en EPSG:4326 (WGS84, référentiel natif du GPS) avec le nom de fichier en attribut, effectue une jointure spatiale avec une couche de polygones (emprises) puis copie ou déplace les photos dans des sous-dossiers nommés d'après le champ choisi de chaque entité. Il prépare également une mise en page Atlas : page 1 = carte centrée sur l'emprise, page 2 = photos associées + table des photos.
version=1.4.0
author=Antoine Le Pajolec
email=ant.lepajolec@gmail.com
category=Vector
tags=photo,exif,gps,gpx,geotag,atlas,tri,import,ecology,field survey
homepage=https://github.com/antlepajolec-code/geophoto-tri-atlas
tracker=https://github.com/antlepajolec-code/geophoto-tri-atlas/issues
repository=https://github.com/antlepajolec-code/geophoto-tri-atlas
experimental=False
deprecated=False
hasProcessingProvider=no
icon=icon.svg
changelog=1.4.0
    - Feature: the point layer created by import or GPX correlation now
      gets a "point + arrow" default style: a plain point for every
      photo, with an arrow showing the shooting direction (azimuth,
      read from the EXIF GPSImgDirection tag, already extracted but
      previously unused visually) whenever it is available. Photos
      without a known direction just show a point. This style is
      inherited by the Atlas map page 1 automatically (it captures the
      layer's current style, same mechanism as the numbered-point
      labelling), and can be toggled off (or customized afterwards like
      any QGIS style) via a new checkbox on the import and GPX
      correlation tabs. Purely cosmetic: if the symbology API differs
      on a given QGIS version, the layer simply keeps its default style
      and a warning is logged, without ever blocking the import.
    1.3.0
    - Feature: new "Correlate with a GPX track" step, for photos taken
      with a GPS-less camera (DSLR, compact) while carrying a handheld
      GPS tracker (Garmin or similar) that records a timestamped GPX
      track. Each photo's EXIF capture time (read independently of any
      GPS tag) is matched against the track, its position is linearly
      interpolated between the two surrounding track points, and a
      user-configurable clock-offset (seconds) corrects for the usual
      mismatch between the camera's clock and GPS/UTC time (timezone +
      drift), the same approach as GeoSetter/digiKam. A maximum allowed
      gap between surrounding track points discards interpolations that
      would be unreliable (tracker off or signal lost for a while). The
      resulting point layer uses the same schema as step 1, so it works
      directly with sorting and the Atlas. GPX parsing uses only the
      Python standard library (xml.etree.ElementTree), with an explicit
      pre-check rejecting DOCTYPE/ENTITY declarations (XXE protection)
      before parsing, since the plugin has no external dependency to
      call a hardening library such as defusedxml.
    1.2.2
    - Packaging: version bump only (1.2.1 was already registered on the
      QGIS repository from a prior upload attempt that never completed
      approval, which blocked re-uploading under the same version
      number). No code change from 1.2.1.
    1.2.1
    - Fix: silent "except Exception: pass" blocks (flagged as CWE-703 by
      the QGIS repository's mandatory Bandit security scan, which
      blocked this plugin's publication) now log a warning via
      QgsMessageLog instead of failing silently.
    - Cleanup: removed unused imports and fixed remaining code-style
      warnings (Flake8) found during the QGIS repository's pre-publish
      scan.
    - Fix: 27 unqualified PyQt/QGIS enum references (e.g. QFont.Bold,
      Qt.AscendingOrder) rewritten with their fully-qualified Qt6 form
      (e.g. QFont.Weight.Bold, Qt.SortOrder.AscendingOrder) for Qt6 /
      QGIS 4 compatibility, per the QGIS repository's automated Qt6
      compatibility check.
    1.2.0
    - Fix: a GPS EXIF tag present but EMPTY (0/0 rational components,
      missing N/S/E/W reference — observed on a Samsung Galaxy A26 5G
      when location could not be acquired at capture time) was
      converted into an exact (0, 0) point ("Null Island", far from
      any real footprint) instead of being treated as no GPS. All
      three EXIF readers (QgsExifTools, internal parser, Pillow) now
      validate the reference and reject NaN/Infinite/exact-(0,0)
      coordinates; the "Diagnose a photo file" button now explains
      this case.
    - Fix: the Pillow fallback crashed (uncaught ZeroDivisionError) on
      this same kind of empty GPS tag.
    - A file whose EXIF reading fails unexpectedly no longer aborts
      the import of the rest of the folder.
    1.1.0
    - Fix: the Atlas-to-point-layer comparison compared a sanitized
      footprint name (sanitize_name) to the raw field value, leaving
      Atlas page 2 (photos/table) empty for any footprint whose name
      contained a character altered by sanitization. The 'emprise'
      attribute now stores the raw value (the sanitized folder name is
      still used only for sorting on disk).
    - The Atlas map now imports the current canvas view (displayed
      basemap + extent) and locks the layers used, instead of
      dynamically following the project's layer visibility.
    - Numbered point labelling is now applied only within the Atlas
      layout (style override), without modifying the layer's style in
      the project.
